There are people who believe there is no need for a religious organization.
They feel they have their own personal relationship with God, and that is good enough.
They see no need to be associated with a specific organization.
However, what does God's own inspired word suggest that He would use an organization
or channel through which spiritual food would be dispensed from His Word, the Bible.
For example, 1 Peter 2 verse 17 says to have love for the whole association of brothers.
One dictionary definition for association is an organization of persons having a common
interest.
We have a very interesting, insightful look at the organization in the first century.
If we glance down through chapter 15 of the book of Acts, we can gain some insight.
Verse 1 indicates there was an issue that caused a disagreement between some of the members
of the congregation.
Then verse 2 says, but after quite a bit of dissension and disputing by Paul and Barnabas
with them, it was arranged for Paul, Barnabas and some of the others to go up to the apostles
and elders in Jerusalem regarding this issue.
Sounds like an organization to me.
And after considerable discussion and with the help of God's Holy Spirit, what transpired?
Verses 22 and 23 say, then the apostles and the elders together with the whole congregation
decided to send chosen men from among them to Antioch, along with Paul and Barnabas.
They sent Judas, who was called Barsabus and Silas, who were leading men among the brothers.
They wrote this and sent it through them.
Then in verses 23 through 29 is the letter of direction that was delivered to Antioch and
other congregations as well.
In fact, in verse 41, it says Paul and Silas went through Syria and Selissia strengthening
the congregations.
After 16 verse 5 says, then indeed the congregations continued to be made firm in the faith and
to increase the number day by day.
So it was not a matter of isolated Christians sitting at home claiming to have a personal
relationship with God.
No, the work was organized and congregations kept being added day by day.
It is very similar to what we see in Jehovah's organization today.
In fact, the organization of Jehovah's Witnesses has patterned after the first century Christian
congregation as set forth in the scriptures.
I would like to remind all of Jehovah's Witnesses whether already baptized or working toward
baptism of this book, organized to do Jehovah's will.
It provides an overall view of how the Christian congregation is organized for getting God's
work done.
The book also offers counsel and direction to help us maintain unity with our brothers
worldwide.
New ones need to become familiar with the operation of Jehovah's organization and learn
how they can have a share in the modern day preaching work.
In fact, when a Bible student progresses and desires to join us in the ministry as an
unbaptized publisher, the elders direct him to make a study of this book, including the
questions for those desiring to get baptized in the appendix.
Even for those of us who have been baptized many years, it may be good to schedule the
reading of one chapter of the book each week during our personal study or family worship.
It contains general information concerning the duties of elders and ministerial servants,
judicial procedures, and various other features of congregation organization.
I would like to take a few minutes and review some of the information in chapter one of
the publication.
Though there are thousands of national and international organizations around the world,
they are organized according to human viewpoints and philosophies.
But our organization is different.
It is theocratic.
That means it is ruled by Jehovah as head overall.
Isaiah chapter 33 verse 22 says, he is our judge, logiver, and king.
Many larger organizations appoint a chief executive officer or CEO.
He is the executive with the chief decision making authority in a business or corporation.
In a similar way, Jehovah has appointed his son Jesus to be the one with chief decision
making authority over the congregation of God.
Ephesians chapter 1 verse 22 is speaking of Jehovah's actions and connection with Jesus.
And says, he also subjected all things under his feet and made him head over all things
with regard to the congregation.
We see the structure of the organization taking shape.
Jehovah is the universal sovereign, the king, directing the millions of angels making
up his heavenly organization.
But when it comes to directing the visible earthly part of God's organization, he has
delegated that responsibility to Jesus, the head of the congregation of God.
Chapter 2 of the organized book explains the scriptural position of Jesus.
And how does Jesus direct the organization here on earth?
Matthew 24, 45 says that Jesus has appointed a faithful and discrete slave to serve spiritual
food at the proper time.
Today, seven anointed men make up the faithful slave, and collectively, they are known as
the governing body.
And Jesus uses the Holy Spirit to direct these men in harmony with the scriptures.
The scriptural basis for this layer of organization is set forth in chapter 3 of the book.
Chapter 4 is titled, How the congregation is organized and governed.
The organizational structure incorporates branch committees, circuit overseers, elders,
and ministerial servants.
The subject index in the back of the book can be useful to quickly gain access to information
on various aspects of the organization.
Suppose you're a young person, maybe even a relatively young married couple.
The circuit overseers visiting and he asks you what spiritual goals you have.
How would you answer?
Would your mind start racing trying to think of various avenues of service available?
How about now, before you are asked such a question, look in the subject index under
goals.
There are eleven references to paragraphs in the book on that subject.
After reading about all of the possibilities and different categories you'd be in a better
position to plan your life for a great future in the earthly part of Jehovah's organization.
At this time, I would like to draw your attention to a very important factor in a new one's
making progress and attaining spiritual stability.
On page 213 of the organized book, it discusses a person interested in being baptized.
After the elders go over the questions in part three of the book, it says this, if he
has not completed his study of the Bible teach in God's love books, the elders should make
arrangements for someone to help him do so.
The two books complement each other so well.
When someone becomes a dedicated and baptized servant of Jehovah, we want him to stay closely
attached to the organization.
Yet every year, there are a number who stop attending meetings and become inactive.
At times, it has been found that they did not finish studying the two books.
You see, the Bible Teachbook helps new ones to have an accurate knowledge of the Bible,
and they often learn to love Jehovah.
To keep yourselves in God's love book helps us to learn to apply the Bible and live
in harmony with Jehovah's standards.
Notice what Jesus told His faithful apostles at John chapter 15 and verse 10.
If you observe my commandments, you will remain in my love just as I have observed the
commandments of the Father and remain in His love.
Did you notice that Jesus remained in God's love by observing His Father's commandments?
The same is true of us today.
To remain in God's love, we need to apply the truth in our everyday life.
And what is the result if we keep ourselves in God's love?
It is so clearly stated in Jude, verse 21, in order to keep yourselves in God's love
while you await the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ with ever-lasting life in view.
Staying in God's love results in ever-lasting life.
It is so important to make sure our Bible students complete a study of both books, and
that applies to our children too.
Sometimes as parents, we can assume that our children are developing a trusting relationship
with Jehovah because they have been going to meeting since they were very small.
A relationship with Jehovah does not happen by means of osmosis.
A child does not simply absorb and assimilate truth and a love for God just by being in the
presence of others who have a close relationship with Jehovah.
We very much appreciate all the videos we have including become Jehovah's friend and
JW broadcasting, but new ones and young ones need to be able to go through the process
of deep study to get to the Bible's truth and it is etched into their minds and lodged
deep into their hearts.
Therefore, if you parents realize that you have not studied both books with your young
ones, it would be good to see that a schedule is established to do so.
The governing body gives all credit for the success of this organization to Jehovah
and the appointed head of the congregation Jesus Christ.
We are just imperfect men trying to follow the lead of Christ in the Holy Spirit.
At 1 Corinthians chapter 1, verse 26, Paul says, if you see his calling of your brothers
that there are not many wise in a fleshly way, verse 27 says, but God shows the foolish
things of the world to put the wise men to shame.
Then verse 30 says that Christ Jesus has become to us wisdom from God.
That is where the direction and wisdom of the organization comes from, not from mere
man.
The words of Jehovah to the prophet Zechariah fit today when we see the amazing advances
in the organization.
Zechariah 4.6 says, not by a military force nor by power, but by my spirit says Jehovah
of armies.
While there are some well-educated and prominent men who have accepted the truth and are now
our fellow brothers, the majority in the organization come from a more humble background.
For example, among the first of Jehovah's modern-day servants who introduced the kingdom
message to people in Denmark was a shoemaker, in Switzerland and France it was a gardener.
In many parts of Africa, the message was carried by itinerant workers.
In Brazil, sailors had a share.
Quite a few of the Polish witnesses in northern France were coal miners.
Often Jesus used all of us to get a remarkable work accomplished.
We are proud to be a part of this spirit directed organization.
As one older circuit overseer was heard to say, this is the best imperfect organization
on earth.
There are no perfect organizations on earth, however, this is the best of them all.
And we appreciate the contribution all of you made to the success of the preaching work
worldwide.